Permify Interview Blog (#4159)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: astro/src/content/blog/grand-line-of-fine-grained-authorization.mdx

categories: Product, News
tags: fine-grained authorization, permify, fusionauth, acquisition
excerpt_separator: "{/* more */}"
---

The acquisition of Permify by FusionAuth might be like the great buddy movie you never saw coming. Two different products meeting, coming together and bonding over a shared mission to spread the word about using the right authorization method at the right time.

Authorization is hard. However, many teams still underestimate just how hard it becomes once products scale, requirements change, and real-world relationships enter the picture.

I sat down with Ufuk Civan, one of the lead engineers at Permify, to talk about FusionAuth's recent acquisition of Permify. It was a good discussion about why this merger matters and why it's good news for builders.

{/* more */}

## What Is Permify?

[Permify](https://permify.co) is a centralized authorization service based on [Google's Zanzibar](https://research.google/pubs/zanzibar-googles-consistent-global-authorization-system/) authorization model, a battle-tested approach used internally by some of the largest technology companies in the world.

Ufuk says Permify answers one critical question:

> > “Does this user have permission to perform this action on this resource?”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Does this user have permission to perform this action on this resource?
```
No need for quotes on an inline quote!

Instead of hardcoding authorization logic throughout your application, Permify:

- Centralizes authorization logic.
- Defines fine-grained permissions based on relationships.
- Allows you to change authorization rules dynamically, without redeploying your app.

> - Version controls both authorization schemas and authorization data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Maintains version history for both authorization schemas and authorization data.
```
"Version controls" as a verb is correct, but slang-y and rough for readability. Maybe tweak it like so (or similar). Optional, though -- not a huge problem.

As Ufuk put it, authorization is inherently dynamic. Business rules evolve, products grow, and access models change. Permify is designed to evolve with you.

## Authorization Is Often Done Wrong; How Can Permify Help?

When I asked Ufuk what mistakes he has seen people make and how Permify can help, he said this:

> The biggest mistake teams make is underestimating authorization and delaying the decisions.

> Early on, it's tempting to hardcode checks into application logic, defer authorization design until “later”, and assume current requirements won't change (hint: they always do). Then “later” shows up with edge cases, new features, enterprise customers, role explosions, and compliance requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Early on, it's tempting to hardcode checks into application logic, defer authorization design until later, and assume current requirements won't change (hint: they always do). Then "later" shows up with edge cases, new features, enterprise customers, role explosions, and compliance requirements.
```
suggestion: reduce scare quote usage, switch from smart to ascii quotes (astro will smartify them, don't worry)

Six months down the line, what started as a simple role check becomes a tangled web of conditionals that are difficult to update, test, or roll back. Suddenly, you're refactoring half your codebase. Versioning becomes painful. Reverting changes becomes risky.

Permify addresses this by separating authorization from business logic entirely. You can update your permissions without touching your business logic. Permify also version controls your authorization changes. That's the kind of thing you only appreciate after you've been burned once. Hopefully, with Permify, you will not have to experience that.

## Why Should Permify Users Be Excited About the Acquisition?

> One thing Ufuk highlighted was how much FusionAuth's experience with large-scale deployments will accelerate Permify's growth. Permify already had a product guided and built with the community. Now it gets to add FusionAuth's enterprise experience. That's a good combo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One thing Ufuk highlighted was how much FusionAuth's experience with large-scale deployments will accelerate Permify's growth. Permify already had a product guided and built with the community. Now it gets to add FusionAuth's enterprise experience.
```
suggestion: no need to hammer this home, the previous sentence does the work already!

As Ufuk explains, Permify has already benefited from this acquisition:

> - In addition to the great community support already offered, FusionAuth will provide professional support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In addition to the great community support already offered, FusionAuth provides professional support.
```
optional, if I'm wrong: this should be present tense to better align with the other (past-tense) bullets

- FusionAuth has helped speed up SDK releases and documentation.

It is important to note that Permify will remain flexible. You can use Permify with any authentication system, including homegrown solutions or third-party providers. However, with FusionAuth, the integration becomes tighter, more seamless, and fully supported by the same team.

## Why Should FusionAuth Users Be Excited About the Acquisition?

FusionAuth already provides authentication and identity management. Permify completes the picture with Fine-Grained Authorization (FGA).

Together, FusionAuth and Permify provide a full solution to Customer Identity and Access Management (CIAM):

- **Authentication (AuthN)**: Who is the user?
- **Authorization (AuthZ)**: What can the user do?

While FusionAuth has had support for group-level permissions, Permify adds support for the granular permission policies required by a Relationship-Based Access Control (ReBAC) system. FusionAuth users now have the tools to implement complicated permission requirements.

## Let's Talk Open Source

Permify began and will continue to be an open source project. For Ufuk, open source goes far beyond just publishing code.

> > “We have a really good amount of contributions from community members.”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> We have a really good amount of contributions from community members.
```
same as above

> The [codebase](https://github.com/Permify/permify) is not just public. The public can create pull requests and contribute to the code as well. The pull requests are always reviewed by Permify before it goes into the code base or documentation. The support issues are visible for people to read, comment on and learn from. The roadmaps, decisions and discussions about them are also visible to the community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [codebase](https://github.com/Permify/permify) is not just public. The public can create pull requests and contribute to the code as well. The team always reviews pull requests before merge. The support issues are visible for people to read, comment on and learn from. The roadmaps, decisions, and discussions about them are also visible to the community.
```
suggestion: simplify a slightly awkward construction; oxford comma

Even after the acquisition, Permify remains open, with continued community involvement and faster development velocity. In fact, one of Permify's newer APIs was implemented entirely by a community contributor.

That openness is part of what attracted FusionAuth in the first place.

## Any Concerns?

Ufuk raised one major concern, and it's a good one: people constantly confuse authentication and authorization.

We need to be crystal clear about:

- What FusionAuth does.
- What Permify does.
- When to use which.
- How they work together.

> > “That's on us.”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> That's on us.
```
same as above

These concerns are top of mind for engineers at both Permify and FusionAuth. This acquisition should make developers more confident about designing secure systems, not more confused.

## My Favorite Moment: The One Piece Analogy

> Just for fun, I asked Ufuk what characters FusionAuth and Permify would be if they were in a movie. Ufuk went to anime. He chose characters from One Piece.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just for fun, I asked Ufuk what characters FusionAuth and Permify would be if they were in a movie. Ufuk went to anime. He chose characters from One Piece:
```
might be a good idea to use a colon to introduce the next set of ideas

FusionAuth represented by **Luffy**—the ambitious, energetic leader pulling the team together.  
Permify as **Roronoa Zoro**—strong, powerful specialist filling in Luffy's gaps.  
Together, they form a stronger crew, built for the long haul. Most importantly, they like to have fun while doing great work.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* FusionAuth as **Luffy** — the ambitious, energetic leader pulling the team together.  
* Permify as **Roronoa Zoro** — strong, powerful specialist filling in Luffy's gaps.  
* Together, they form a stronger crew, built for the long haul. Most importantly, they like to have fun while doing great work.

```
suggestion: unless you add extra newlines, these will all render as a single paragraph. I think bullets with parallel construction might look nicer? up to you though.

If this partnership leads to the same longevity as the One Piece series, I'll take it.

## Conclusion

Authorization isn't optional. And it's not something you want to rebuild every time your product evolves. With FusionAuth handling authentication and Permify handling authorization, developers get:

- Clear separation of concerns
- Proven, scalable models
- Flexibility without chaos
- A unified platform backed by one team

If you're already using FusionAuth, Permify unlocks the next level of access control.  

> If you're already using Permify, FusionAuth offers enterprise level support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're already using Permify, FusionAuth offers enterprise-level support.
```
nitpick: hyphenate adjectives

Here are a couple of examples of how this benefits Permify:

- In addition to the great community support already offered, FusionAuth will begin to provide professional support for those that require it.
- According to Ufuk, FusionAuth's experience has helped fully automate the build process for Permify and make it more robust.
- Ufuk also mentioned that with FusionAuth's help, the SDKs are able to be released faster and with better documentation.

It is important to note that Permify will remain flexible. It can work with any authentication system, including homegrown solutions or third-party providers. However, with FusionAuth, the integration becomes tighter, more seamless, and fully supported by the same team.

## Why Should FusionAuth Users Be Excited About the Acquisition?

FusionAuth already provides authentication and identity management. Permify completes the picture with Fine-Grained Authorization (FGA).

Together, they cover both sides of the access control equation:

- **Authentication (AuthN):** Who is the user?

> - **Authorization (AuthZ):** What can they do?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Authentication (AuthN)**: Who is the user?
- **Authorization (AuthZ)**: What can the user do?
```
nitpicks: un-bold colons, remove pronoun

## Let's Talk Open Source

Permify began and will continue to be an open source project. For Ufuk, open source goes far beyond just publishing code.

> “We have a really good amount of contributions from community members.”

The codebase is not just public. The public can create pull requests and contribute to the code as well. The pull requests are always reviewed by Permify before it goes into the code base or documentation. The support issues are visible for people to read, comment on and learn from. The roadmaps, decisions and discussions about them are also visible to the community.

Even after the acquisition, Permify remains open, with continued community involvement and faster development velocity. In fact, one of Permify's newer APIs was implemented entirely by a community contributor.

That openness is part of what attracted FusionAuth in the first place.

## Any Concerns?

> There was one concern Ufuk raised and it's a good one: people constantly confuse authentication and authorization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ufuk raised one major concern, and it's a good one: people constantly confuse authentication and authorization.
```
suggestion: reword for snappiness, active voice

We need to be crystal clear about:

- What FusionAuth does.
- What Permify does.
- When to use which.
- How they work together.

> “That's on us.”

There are still a few things the organizations are working on in terms of messaging and integration, but with Ufuk's contributions, these will surely be addressed. This acquisition should make developers more confident about designing secure systems, not more confused.

## My Favorite Moment: The One Piece Analogy

Just for fun, I asked Ufuk what characters FusionAuth and Permify would be if they were in a movie. Ufuk went to anime. He chose characters from One Piece.

FusionAuth represented by **Luffy**—the ambitious, energetic leader pulling the team together.  

> Permify as **Roronoa Zoro**—strong, powerful specialist filling in some of the gaps Luffy may have.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Permify as **Roronoa Zoro**—strong, powerful specialist filling in Luffy's gaps.  
```
fewer word better?

Together, they form a stronger crew, built for the long haul. Most importantly, they like to have fun while doing great work.

If this partnership leads to the same longevity as the One Piece series, I'll take that.

## Conclusion

Authorization isn't optional. And it's not something you want to rebuild every time your product evolves. With FusionAuth handling authentication and Permify handling authorization, developers get:

- Clear separation of concerns
- Proven, scalable models
- Flexibility without chaos
- A unified platform backed by one team

If you're already using FusionAuth, Permify unlocks the next level of access control.  

> If you are already using Permify, FusionAuth offers enterprise level support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're already using Permify, FusionAuth offers enterprise-level support.
```
suggestion: parallel construction with previous sentence (you're), hyphenate
